In Git and GitHub, tags are labels attached to a specific commit to mark an important point in the repository’s history. They are most commonly used to mark versions or releases of a project. You can think of a tag as a permanent bookmark for a commit.

Tags are usually used to mark software releases, stable versions, or important milestones. For example, if a project reaches its first stable version, a developer might create a tag called v1.0. That tag points to the exact commit representing that version of the code.

In a commit history, it might look like this conceptually:
A -- B -- C -- D -- E
If commit C is tagged as v1.0, that tag will always refer to commit C, even if new commits are added later.

Version tags often follow a versioning format like v1.0.0, v1.1.0, or v2.0.0. This usually represents Major.Minor.Patch. For example, v1.0.0 could be the first release, v1.1.0 might introduce new features, and v1.1.1 might contain small bug fixes.

To create a tag locally, a developer runs the command:
git tag v1.0
This creates a tag for the latest commit. If you want to tag a specific commit, you can run:
git tag v1.0 <commit-hash>

Tags are not automatically uploaded to GitHub when you push code, so they must be pushed separately. To push a single tag you can run:
git push origin v1.0
To push all tags you can run:
git push origin --tags

There are also annotated tags, which are recommended because they store additional metadata such as the author, date, and a message describing the release. They are created with:
git tag -a v1.0 -m "First stable release"

You can see all tags in a repository by running:
git tag

You can also check out the code at a specific tagged version using:
git checkout v1.0
This allows you to view the project exactly as it was when that version was released.

The main difference between tags and branches is that branches move forward with new commits, while tags always point to a fixed commit and do not change. Branches are used for development, while tags are typically used to mark releases.
